Oooooookay! So, yesterday was a bit of a fail, I meant to come back but got caught up reading... Anyway, I'll continue on!

Timestamp: 15:30 (08/18/25) <Begin!>

More filesystem stuff!

touch, this command is used to make files, pretty straightforward.... Though idk why they didn't just name it something like (create -file "filename") but I guess that would've been less interesting, huh? (touch testfile.txt)
mkdir, this command creates a new directory, better named than "touch" so thats a plus, plus its useful for general organization.
cp, this command copies a file or folder, not too sure whether this means duplication or not, but seeing as how there is no paste im assuming it makes a clone of the file in a selected location
mv, this command moves a file or folder from one place to another. Interesting, it can also be used to "rename" files.
rm, the dangerous one, this command erases anything its set upon, as for whether there is an undo... well, I have the feeling there isn't.
file, this one just... tells you the type of file it is? interesting, some files appear as directories, so I guess this is useful if you want to make something appear as something else to hide pathways to something? not sure...

Well, now we're playing with permissions! I despise this already because its so annoying to read, so many nuances to know...

To read them (permissions)n they are divided into 3 columns; Read Write Execute, and these three things determine how a user or group may interact with that file

New commands!

su, switch user, a nice abbreviations, to use it you's do (su "username" "password")

okay, so I didn't complete it again today, BUT I got practical experience using everything I learnd and was able to do some commands off of recall without having to come here and look, so I call that a win.... Now, I WILL get it all done tmrw though!

had some fun ssh'ing into the lab computer at school from my dorm, but I got a little carried away and didn't carefully input my password, and since you can't see inputs... well, I gotta get it reset. luckily this is before classes start so I have some leeway to flounder.

anyway, cya tmrw!




