Holllyyy, took a month break, classes needed my utmost attention and my mental state was.... not the best! But now I think my head is on straight and we can continue!

So we're back where we left off at Linux Fundamentals Part 2, Permissions.
God I hate how they look, but they ARE useful, had to delete a whole directory because I fudged them up once and couldn;t for the life of me access what was inside it because of wonky permisswions even ignoring my admin account and sudo :p
Luckily it was a test directory so nothing important was lost, but geez, I know the importance of perms now.
Anyway, my goal for this bit is really just to tie up Part 2, I don't have high expectations to get it all done today since I also need to start laying the groundwork for my first CS porject in Java
Gonna use W3 schools like I used to, coding is so much damn fun, its like a puzzle with infinite pieces, and I can make whatever picture i want with them all! 
The only issue though, is that until I learn what the piece are I can'y use them, but that is also more exciting because learning th epieces makes you thik of "what other pieces could exist" which is extremely exciting!

Anyway, enough banter since im running out of time, math class is soon, and before today I couldn't understand why we needed so much math, but today in class we needed to create a for loop that printed only odd numbers and I kept second guessing myself whether evens had no remainders or not, thus the logic behind math is very importnt for certain things!
of course, if I coud earn only math logic and not do math itself that would be a dream, but unfortunately I must suffer at the hands of pre-calc and trig. 

Okay! so lets begin.

Timestamp (start): 11:30 09/15/25

So, to see permissions of files within your current directory you use ls -lh, now as for what -lh stands for im not sure, I'll look into it more deeply later today and update this entry
From left to right there are three columns which represent the Read, write, and Execute permissions respectively. 
There are two different permission classifications, Users and Groups, though I suppose technically three, Owner, Users, and Groups.
You can switch between users by using the su command, interesting, so the I forgot the tech nical term so I'll just say "additions" to su are -l and --ogin
The difference between su user and su -l user is that su switches to the other user within the same directory you are in, while su -l switches to the user while also moving into the home directory of tht user

got some practice using su, nothing too fnncy, but I understand how it works, i'll need to mentally go over it more after math class, but that starts sooon so I gotta review for that!
Ration Inequalities :( anyway, it's been 30nminutes, not tooo bad I'll finish up once im back, ciao!

Timestamp (break): 12:00 09/15/25

Ahem... so uh, I lied... cya on the ost current day!
